# Isogenies of elliptic curves and their applications to cryptography

Exercises for the [CIMPA research
school](http://www.rnta.eu/Popayan2023/), Universidad del Cauca,
Popayán, Colombia, July 24 – August 4.

These [Jupyter/Sagemath](https://www.sagemath.org/) notebooks contain
the tutorials and exercises for the "Cryptography" course of the
school.

## Install Sagemath

If you have the opportunity, it's recommended to install Sagemath on
your personal machine. Instructions at
<https://doc.sagemath.org/html/en/installation/index.html>.

## Use Sagemath in the cloud

If you couldn't install Sagemath, there are two opportunities to use
it in the cloud.

### Cocalc

[Cocalc](https://cocalc.com/) is a freemium cloud service providing
Sagemath and other scientific tools.  You will have to create an
account in order to use it.

You can open the tutorials in Cocalc by following this link:
<https://cocalc.com/github/defeo/cimpa-popayan>.

After you open a notebook, click on "Edit your own copy". It will
prompt you to create an account, if you haven't already done so, and
then import the notebook in a project.

### Binder

[Binder](https://mybinder.org/) is a free service supporting
reproducible environments for scientific computation. No account is
needed.

You can open the tutorials in Binder by following this link:
<https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/defeo/cimpa-popayan/master>.

If launching hangs for more than a minute, give it another try by
reloading the page, or clicking on the link again.

Be warned that, unlike in Cocalc, whatever work you do is not saved in
the cloud! Do not forget to download your work at the end of the
session.

## Direct links to notebooks

Below you'll find direct Binder links to the notebooks in this
repository.  Click on them to jump straight to them.

- [The notebook of the first tutorial](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/defeo/cimpa-popayan/master?labpath=2023-08-01-popayan.ipynb) on elliptic curves, torsion points and the Frobenius endomorphism.

- [The notebook of the second tutorial](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/defeo/cimpa-popayan/master?labpath=2023-08-02-popayan.ipynb) on isogenies and complex multiplication.

## Acknowledgments

This repository is based on <https://github.com/sagemath/sage-binder-env>.
Go there for more demos and infos.
